# Euclid’s Elements

Modern mathematics rests upon a very rigorous foundation that supports a diverse group of research areas. 
Number theory, topology, calculus and many other branches all rest upon a set of axioms and a logical 
structure that ties those axioms together into proofs.

It wasn’t always so. Ancient mathematics was a subject rooted in repetition and rote learning, with the intention
that students would infer the deeper meaning of the subject over time. A pivotal book in the march towards 
rigor was Euclid’s Elements.

This book not only described geometrical proofs and methods of calculation, but it also set a 
foundation for geometry based upon five postulates that were taken as self-evidently true. With 
the five postulates and basic logic, one could (presumably) prove any true statement about geometry 
without needing to resort to other arguments.

This book went on to become one of the most important math books of all time, and the path that 
it set humanity on is still bearing fruit.

But Euclid likely didn’t create the five postulates…

In fact, historians of math are of the consensus that Euclid’s Elements was an aggregation of existing 
knowledge and practices that had been in general awareness for some time. Perhaps various groups at that 
time had slightly different versions of the postulates, each subtly different or even inconsistent. Perhaps a few
geometric proofs were available that resorted to only the five postulates, but they included additional 
axioms out of tradition.

Whatever the reason, Euclid’s Elements aggregated existing knowledge, formalized that knowledge and thereby 
transformed the process of doing geometry forever.

For skeptical managers, the lessons is similar: one of the most important and beneficial tasks that you can do as a 
manager is aggregate, refine and publicize existing information rather than create anew. Those of us in technical 
fields will find this alien, as solving creative problems with new ideas is expected of us in individual contributor 
roles. Of course, a manager’s role is to aid those around themselves, and education and consistency are two facets of 
that role that deserve constant attention.

Develop training plans that incorporate the values you want to emphasize. Write quickstart guides for complicated 
machinery that helps illuminate the underlying structure. Identify the competing philosophies of your organization and
find the harmony between them, if it exists. None of these tasks will create new information, but the synthesis of 
existing information done well can change the world. 
